Reviewer #1: I read this paper with interest. Surveying recent work on the domestic politics of globalization in general and work on room to maneuver constraints in particular, it argues that we need to know more about how the international economy figures into mass political perceptions and attitudes. The crux of this motivation is stated on p. 8 where the author writes "Given that public perceptions of the institutional context have been shown to affect political consequences of the economy, it is puzzling that scholarship on the domestic politics of economic globalization has largely neglected a serious inquiry into political communication and the mass media in particular." I agree, and I applaud the author's attempt to address this lacuna in the literature and to better link global economic signals to public perceptions. That said, I have two basic problems with this manuscript. Below I address each of these in turn; I then proceed to provide further comments and highlight additional concerns.

The first (and primary) issue with this paper is that I am not convinced of the author's argument. S/he argues that the missing link between globalization and blame attribution (and then the implications thereof for turnout, spending, and the like) is the media. That may be - the media probably does play a role. But just what role is not clear. The author?unjustifiably, it seems to me?argues that the media systematically shifts blame away from governments and toward international forces. Why is this? I'm not as convinced as the author is that the "mass media tends to shift the perceptual and behavioral response of protectionist individuals away from blaming and acting against the government on the politics of openness" (p. 4). Why would we think this? Does this expectation suggest that we should somehow isolate "protectionist individuals" in our analyses b/c their behavior is shaped differently than other types of individuals? It seems to me that in many countries (the US, UK, Germany), much of the media's role is to cast light on poor decisions and ineptitude on the part of politicians?indeed, my prior would be that the media tent to both credit politicians too much when things go well and blame them too much when they go poorly. France?the country from which the primary empirical analyses hails--may be exceptional here, with a media and general popular discourse which is far more concerned with the deleterious effect of la mondalisation than other countries. 

The author, however, argues that the media provide an attribution bias away from the government and toward international factors. This is puzzling. The reason for this pro-government bias in the media apparently hinges on notions of indexing. Ok. But to me, indexing is the process of adjusting coverage of an issue according to the level of disagreement and debate about the issue among policy elites (Iyengar). My working definition is somewhat different from the author's, who associates indexing with the tendency of the media simply to pick up on elite discourse, without respect to disagreement or debate - see discussion at end of p. 8). But if anything, the author's story is that globalization leads to less disagreement and less debate among elites because all elites?even competitors?recognize the benefits to be had from emphasizing how constrained they are by globalization.

So, in short, I am not convinced by the general causal chain here, i.e., openness -> media influence -> blame international forces (p. 14). To me, one could just as easily expect openness -> media influence -> blame elected officials. I might be more willing to buy into the author's argument if s/he had presented some anecdotal evidence of this sort of pro-international forces blame bias in the media - perhaps by summarizing an analysis of issue framing in newspaper articles or simply with a few select examples from television of print media coverage of particular issues (e.g., the financial crisis, the Maastricht treaty, etc). But nothing along these lines appears in the paper.

The second basic concern I have with this manuscript pertains to the evidence the author presents. It just isn't all that convincing. The author presents a list of hypotheses (which, with the exception of the last one, are weakly-motivated - see comment below). Hypotheses 1-3 are tested in four separate analyses with four different dependent variables from the Legidoscope survey of French public opinion in 1992-93. Coefficients in regression models show that estimates on parameters of interest are statistically significant and signed in the expected direction. In each case, however, the magnitudes of the effects are extremely small. The tiny sizes of the effects are communicated in the analyses of predicted probabilities and outcome values in Figures 3, 5 and 7. 

By the way, presentations in these figures (3, 5, 7) are misleading because they make it appear as though the predictor variables are continuous when they in fact are binary. For example in Figure 3, "main source of information," is continuous when in fact it is binary. This figure can be dispensed with - simply reporting the two predicted probabilities in the text is sufficient (~.34 and ~.38, as they appear -a VERY tiny effect!). This same issue of inappropriate displays of results based on dichotomous, categorical (non-ordinal, non-continuous) measures applies also to Figures 5 and 7. All three of these should be eliminated. I will say, however, that these three figures really demonstrate how infinitesimally small these effects are. The y-axis on Figure 3 runs from .3 probability of blaming international forces to .4. The y-axis on Figure 5 runs from 1.5 to 2 on the four point government handling measure. And the y-axis on Figure 7 runs from .96 probability of voting to .98 - a range of 0.02 probability!

A third (less fundamental) concern I have pertains to the macro-level analyses. These state-level aggregate analyses appear to be performed competently. It is good to see the robustness checks by way of rival explanations in Table 2. Note, however, that rival explanations the author accounts for each pertain to arguments in the globalization literature, with respect to how structural factors such as unitarism/federalism, union density, left power, and the like, condition the effects of trade openness on spending. The author includes these interactions and finds that they do not wipe out the effects of the interaction of interest, the cryptically labeled "lag(trade.wb, 1):lag(mdi, 1)." This is fine. However, what we really want to know is whether the key variable here, mass media penetration (mdi) might be correlated with some other factor and, once this correlate is interacted with trade, whether the effect of "lag(trade.wb, 1):lag(mdi, 1)" on spending persists or not. Possible correlates, it seems to me, would be wealth (gdpcap.wb) and democracy (polity2). Thus, we need models which include on the RHS "lag(trade.wb, 1):lag(gdpcap.wb, 1)" and "lag(polity2, 1):lag(mdi, 1)".

Other concerns, roughly in descending order of magnitude:
a.	Micro-analyses: I'm confused on which data is being analyzed. In footnote 9 the author reports that the dependent variable actually refers to perceptions of the SECOND most important problem facing France. The reason is that so many people said "unemployment" for the first problem. So in the appendix we see that this variable (BLAME) is phrased in terms of the second MIP for wave 3 forwards only, and not in waves 1 or 2. So my questions is: are the analyses reported in figures 2-7 based only on waves 3 forward and do not include data from waves 1 and 2? Also, why are there no fixed effects for wave? More generally, the paper lacks discussion of any model specification and estimation decisions, which I would think to be especially important because this is panel data. 

b.	Missing: engagement with Stefanie Walter's work (ISQ) and with Scheve and Slaughter AJPS 2004 - these pieces, along with Hays et al IO and Hays 2009 book - do examine the individual level assumptions of the embedded liberalism argument. Since one of the author's main claims is that very little work examines the micropolitics of globalization, these pieces require some engagement. What's different here from what others have concluded?

c.	How is the model in Figure 4 estimated? Ordered logit/probit? OLS?). 

d.	Labeling issue: The paper labels the variable coded 1 if r blames international forces and 0 otherwise as Blame. This is confusing - I keep thinking it means blame the government. I would relabel this BlameIntl or something to that effect.


e.	A one-paragraph conclusion section is woefully short. What are the broader implications of this study? Are there any shortcomings in the ability of the empirical measures or models? What are the next steps in the domestic politics of economic globalization?

f.	Footnote 7: this doesn't bother me particularly, but I know based on experience that many people will have a problem with how the author classifies problems as associated with international economic openness. Many/most of these open ended responses pertain to Europe and the Maastricht treaty. I recommend that analyses be rerun with a variable that does not code as 1 references to EC-related factors but only (more narrowly) international economic ones. 

g.	Presentational comment: I strongly suggest breaking up the data and method and findings and discussion sections such that the analyses of the French individual-level data are first introduced then analyzed; then the macro-level analyses are introduced/motivated and performed. As it currently stands, the progression of evidence is quite choppy.

h.	I think some of the figure labeling and references to figures are off - reference to figure 5 on p. 22 really refers to figure 4 on p. 23. 

i.	Where are the model estimates related to equation 5 on openness as top problem? Is this what's reported in Table 7 in the appendix? Or Table 8? These are not well identified/labeled.

j.	Mitterrand has two "r"s



Reviewer #2: This paper has the potential to make a major contribution to the study of globalization and domestic politics, both theoretically and by using a novel data source. The findings lead to a fascinating rethinking of major arguments about the relationships between globalization, political accountability, and welfare states, which can potentially reconcile differences between work on the topic based on cross-country regressions and work based on individual surveys. The greatest contribution of this paper is the use of a survey conducted in a crucial place and time which make its results very useful for testing these arguments. The inclusion of cross-national quantitative results serves to nicely bolster the survey findings and connect their relevance to past cross-national work. I highly recommend publication of this paper, provided that the following theoretical and empirical issues can be satisfactorily addressed. 

1. The author needs to better address the ways in which the theory and results contradict a substantial body of work about the importance of the media for political accountability. The work by Besley and coauthors and Boix and coauthors which is cited, among others, sees mass media as an essential mechanism to keep political agents accountable to their principals. The author, however, presents mass media as a tool (at least in the context of the domestic effects of globalization) to effectively shift blame away from the government or to allow the government to "spin" issues to avoid accountability, grounded in indexing theories of media coverage. Why, in this case, do the media-accountability mechanisms fail to operate, and media "spin" mechanisms operate instead? Are globalization/compensation issues a special case in which theories of media and political accountability do not apply, and if so, why? Or alternately, does this article constitute a broader challenge to those theories across the board? The latter could well be the case, but it would need to be stated explicitly and backed up more fully. 

2. My biggest empirical concern is over the distribution of the most important variable in the individual-level analysis, on media as an information source. Buried deep in the appendix is the fact that 88.3 percent of respondents name the media as their main source of information, while only 11.7 percent name any other choice - family, friends or opinion leaders. It is unfortunate that this key variable is so highly skewed. That fact alone is not necessarily problematic, provided that it and the concerns it raises are explicitly addressed rather than hidden away. Who are these small fraction of French respondents who do not get their information from the media? Are they systematically poorer, more rural, more conservative, less unlikely to participate politically, or perhaps more likely to be from groups in society with particular interests in the globalization debate (ie agriculture)? A correlation matrix of the variables in the survey would allow the reader to assess these. If these individuals are systematically different from others on variables such as these, how should we understand the observed relationship between media exposure and blame attribution?

3. The author addresses in footnote 14 potential endogeneity between blame attribution and government evaluation. However, the author needs to better address the possibility that partisanship jointly determines both of these. Would not more fervent supporters of the governing party have tendencies both to blame other factors, and evaluate the government more positively, independent of anything else? Controlling for both Left and Mitterand support together, if those are highly correlated, might disguise the magnitude of these effects on their own. 

4. The reference to measures of ICT penetration at the beginning of the paper was extremely confusing - it had me expecting that you were using measures of internet and other digital media, when in fact it turned out the measures in the cross-national study were of newspaper, TV, and radio. Probably safer to use a different term at the outset.

5. I was surprised that there was no mention of press freedom, or control for press freedom in the cross-national models. Shouldn't the role of mass media in political accountability depend in part on how closely the government controls the media?

6. Finally, the model presented in Figure 7 appears to be making an invalid comparison, as the "Openness is not a problem" respondents are either blaming or not blaming the government for a DIFFERENT PROBLEM than are the respondents who say that Openness is a problem. 



Reviewer #3: The paper examines how mass media exposure affects the perceptions of globalization and attribution of blame for economic outcomes. Theoretically, it combines the literatures on globalization politics and political communication / mass media. Empirically, it studies survey data from France and country-level data over time. 

Unfortunately, I cannot recommend the publication of this paper for three reasons. The theoretical sections needs more work explaining how exactly mass media exposure affects perceptions of globalization. The relevance of the section on turnout for the main argument both in the theoretical and empirical parts is unclear (although I think that the findings are valuable - see below). The empirical part is partially unclear and requires a much more careful discussion of data, variables and results. 

The second section separately summarizes the literature on globalization politics (p.5-8) and the literature on political communication (p.8-9). There is very little discussion what the findings of the latter mean for the former. Instead the author jumps right to the hypotheses in the third section, which ends with a replication of a formal model by Adsera and Boix. I recommend that the author presents a discussion that better outlines the theoretical links between political communication, mass media and globalization politics. The last paragraph in the theoretical section on page 13 hints at an interesting mechanism, albeit very late, and it is not central to the mass media story. The possibility that those affected most by globalization tend to turn out less in elections and the implications for electoral competition and compensation should be explored in greater depth in a paper on its own. As it stands now, the turnout story comes unexpected and seems unrelated to the previous discussion, but I think it is the part of the paper with the greatest potential. 

Regarding the formal model, I do not think that a replication of the model by Adsera and Boix is necessary. As long as there are no additions or modification to this model, a verbal description of the implications would be sufficient. If the author intends to keep the model in the paper, I would like to urge her/him to fix a few inaccuracies. In equation (3), the last 'gamma' presumably should be a 'pi' because (1-pi) reflects the probability that the international economy is in recession. Also on p.12, the author writes that "For any P, an open economy is preferable to a closed economy: ?. " (replace 'gamma' with 'pi' in this equation, too). But the preference order in the sentence before, Pg>Pc>Pb, says something different: a closed economy is better for P than an open economy when the international economy is in a recession; only if the international economy is doing well, then the closed economy is the worse option. I think what the author means (and what would be consistent with the last sentence in the second paragraph on p.13) is that the distribution of pi is assumed to be such that the expected utility from an open economy is smaller than the utility from a closed economy. 

The empirical part could be improved in multiple ways. First, the author could justify much better why France is a good case. I do not dispute that a paper only analyzing France can be interesting, but a couple of sentences with claims that the findings should apply to many other countries (which ones?) is not enough. 

Second, the description of the variables could be much clearer. It took me quite a while to figure out how mass media exposure, a central variable in the paper, is measured. According to the descriptive statistics on p. 41, it is a binary variable with 1802 vs. 13606 observations for each value. This means that only a very small fraction of people, by this binary measure, are not exposed to mass media. A measure capturing different degrees of mass media consumption would certainly be more useful here. [Since it is a binary variable, why are the predicted probabilities in figure 3 presented using a line instead of points, since the former implicitly suggest that we are dealing with a continuous variable?] 

The analysis proceeds in two steps first examining the effect of mass media on blaming and then the effect of blaming on government evaluation. The related discussion of 'indirect' effects of mass media on government evaluation is unclear, partially because it is short. I wish the author explained in much more detail the motivation of each step of the analysis. The author concludes that mass media has a substantive indirect effect on government evaluation because mass media affects blaming and blaming affect evaluations. However, I am not sure that the magnitude of this indirect effect can be specified as done by the author. Only parts of the effect of blame on evaluation can be attributed to mass media because many other factors than mass media affect blaming. To compute the indirect effect of mass media on evaluation via blaming, the author would have to take into account how much of blaming can be attributed to mass media. In any case, a discussion how exactly the 'indirect' effect is computed would help.

I find the results on turnout the more interesting ones, but they are essentially unrelated to mass media, which is the central theme of the paper. Nonetheless, the idea that losers of globalization turn out less is interesting an could be explored further, but in a paper that just focuses on this question. 

A minor issue is the incorrect numbering of figures. The text says that coefficient plots are in figures 2 and 3, but they are really in figures 2 and 4. Figures 3 and 5 are predicted probability plots.

To conclude, one recommendation is to revise the theoretical story and to work on a more careful thorough description and presentation of the results. The other is to disentangle the multiple stories (mass media, direct/indirect effects, turnout) and the micro and macro analyses.